# MODULE 01 - 072: UX Mockups

***

# Video Lesson Speech

[ENG]  

**Jordan Hudgens:** In this guide
 we're going to discuss high fidelity wireframes, or, "mockups". These 
are much more detailed. They essentially represent what the system will 
look like.

We're not going to go into a lot of detail here, because that's what 
the User Interface course is for. That course teaches you how to create 
these types of mockups, pick the right color schemes, build a style 
guide, and design the rest of the interface. We're not going to cover 
all of that right now. We're simply including this section so you know 
at what stage to build these types of designs.

**Jesse Cook:** *Following the low fidelity 
wireframes, you're going to get into these high fidelity designs or 
these mockups. Like I said in a previous guide, clients, managers, and 
bosses start to get really handsy at this point because this is a really
 fun part.*

*Generally how I run these projects is that I get sign off on the 
sitemap and I get sign off on the low fidelity wireframe so that I'm 
confident about what's supposed to be there. Armed with that, I create 
just a couple of high fidelity designs of key pages so that I can give 
the client a good idea of what the app is going to look like. At this 
point, I like to go to the Bat Cave and tell the client "I'm going to 
disappear for a little while."*

*Hopefully, by this time, I've established some trust that they 
don't need to be involved on every single screen. They know I'm going to
 match the aesthetic from that first couple of mockups and that I'm 
going to apply that same design to the others. I'm really just putting 
the paint on the wireframes. I'm moving things around--maybe I had a 
button in the low fidelity wireframe, and I didn't care where it went, 
so I just threw it in the middle.*

*When I start to design it, there's a domino effect where every 
decision is going to affect another decision. That's why we did the low 
fidelity wireframe because we don't want one change to affect a bunch of
 things that you put a lot of time and effort into. This is the point 
where you can start to get really meticulous and start to care about the
 balance because you know all the Lego pieces that you're working with. 
You know when you assemble them that it should stay the way it is. If it
 doesn't, then it's probably because you've allowed someone like me to 
add some more scope which I tend to do.*

**JH:** Haha!

**JC:** *So that's where we flow into this. You want 
to make sure that everything leading up to this has been signed 
off--don't skip the low fidelity, because when you hit this point you 
want to work with confidence and actually put the time into it to make 
each one of these things look great.*

**JH:** That's perfect.

We wanted to keep this section short since this is what the User 
Interface course is all about. The main takeaway is that, after you have
 the sitemaps and the wireframes approved, and the developers are 
working on the backend, ***that's*** when you get down to business and start designing mockups, style guides, and so on.

***

[SPA]  
