# MODULE 01 - 075: UI & Design intro

***

**Jordan Hudgens:** If you 
followed along in our user experience course that is where we helped you  
 develop a system for all of the steps needed for building a clean and   
efficient user interface. And that is a very important component of  
building an application build whether it be mobile, desktop, or any type 
 of software system.  

Now, in this course, we're going to take that knowledge and we're   
going to extend it into the parts of the system where the users are   
actually going to be able to see it. So this is everything from colors,   
white space, all kinds of different components. And one of the reasons   
why I was very excited about this course is because this is a topic I   
personally want to learn.  

Part of the reason we're building the course and why Jesse is coming   
down is this is not a personal strength for me, which is the reason why   
Jesse is here we want somebody that is specialized has been doing this   
for years and has had quite a bit of success in implementing these type   
of techniques.  

**Jesse Cooke:** Yeah. What we really want to talk about  
 is to give you guys the best fundamentals to give you guys that low   
hanging fruit that's going to really push your ability to design   
something yourself and not only just design it but also understand the   
principles that any creative is being delivered to you with so that you   
can understand how to implement those designs in a pixel-perfect   
fashion. So really understanding the thought process that goes behind   
the typography choices that goes behind the colors the style guide the   
balance on the page the better grasp you guys have on understanding   
those design principles will not only make you more capable of designing  
 these things yourself but they're also going to make you a lot better   
of a developer because you're going to be able to implement designs that  
 are given to you a lot more confidently.  

**JH:** Absolutely. And just before we were filming   
we're talking about one of the developers that work for Slate who also   
is very good at design. And you're talking about how with that set of   
skill that combination it has made every project he's work on just turn   
out very well.  

**JC:** Yeah, he showed a huge interest in really   
stepping more into the design realm. You know we hired him on as a   
developer and he really showed that he wanted to take a proactive   
approach to learn the creative direction part. And he's just been   
flourishing and it's been awesome. Not only has he been having a great   
time like really being able to expand his skill set but the other   
developers have talked to me. And on the projects that they've worked   
with him, it's been so smooth because he's been able to design and   
understand what that looks like on the development side. And since he's   
the one that's also implementing a lot of the front end communicating   
with the back end everything is just going so smoothly because they   
don't have to build a bridge to anyone because he's already there.  

**JH:** Absolutely that's something that for my own side  
 one thing that I personally am trying to improve on myself is in this  
exact skill because the workflow that I've had for the majority of my  
own career has been working with somebody like yourself and I would  
always have to wait until I got the mockups the designs everything like  
that. And it always made it so I was constantly waiting for these  
things. For these screens and these designs to be done. And if I could  
personally be better on this side of the design and that part of it then 
 that could help make me a better developer because 1) I would know  
what's going on and the thought processes behind picking out certain  
styles and how you design different components. But also I'd be able to  
do that and go right into development and make the entire process much  
more efficient. 

**JC:** Yeah, absolutely it's definitely something where 
 you shouldn't be terrified of design and think oh I don't have any  
design in my jeans so I'm not ever going to be able to be a designer.  
There's a lot of very basic fundamentals that if you understand those  
and really practice those and take an active approach to learn how to  
better implement typography in color and white space it's going to put  
you so much farther forward in your ability to design it. Learning those 
 fundamentals gives you the foundation on which you can really start to  
actively get better as opposed to just kind of spinning around in  
circles and designing the same type of stuff and so what we're going to  
do is we're going to really lay that foundation of what you should be  
thinking about why it's important. There are some things that maybe you  
think don't carry as much weight in actually why it looks the way it  
does and you just say "Man, I don't know why this doesn't look great but 
 it just doesn't look great". So we want to kind of give you some  
insight as to maybe why it doesn't look and what you could do to make it 
 look better. 

**JH:** Absolutely. This is, a course, I'm very excited  
about it. I hope that you get as much from it as I do. And we will see  
you in the next set of guides.  
